Update README with local environment setup instructions (#205)
futurice/symptomradar: README.md

# Local development environment

This section is still under construction, if you have troubles setting the environment, please contact us (see below section).

## Project structure

The project is currently divided into three parts:

- Backend, which that takes care of collecting and storing survey answers with a stong care for privacy and security
- Frontend main app, the main pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://oiretutka.fi)
- Frontend embed, [the survey form embedded in Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/kotimaa/art-2000006455647.html).

### Backend

Backend related files can be found in:

```
index-backend.ts
src/
- backend/
```

> `<insert some Jarno wisdom here>`

Author: @jareware (Okay I stop pinging you after this one 😂 )

# Local development environment

This section is still under construction, if you have troubles setting the environment, please contact us (see below section).

## Prerequisites

Project requires Node.js >=12 <13 to be installed; all other dependencies come from NPM via package.json.

You will need Node and npm (npm comes with Node). We recommend [using a node version manager, nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to install Node, as it allows automatically switching between node versions across projects.

We recommend also installing [direnv](https://direnv.net/), which helps automatically set environment variables as you switch directories.

## Development environment setup

Clone the project from GitHub (make sure to clone it from the directory you wish to contain your project)

```shell
git clone git@github.com:futurice/symptomradar.git
```

Install NPM dependencies

```shell
cd symptomradar

> rm -rf node_modules

Reviewer: Is this needed here? If you just cloned it and are doing `npm i` for the first time, there shouldn't be any node_modules yet? 🤔

Author: That's true! I just assume it can't hurt, if there's no folder nothing gets removed anyway 😂 I'm completely fine removing it!

Reviewer: Maybe in that case it's enough that it's also mentioned below in the "If you have some issues with the packages installation" section? Yeah it doesn't hurt to do it but also it's not required, but I don't know, your call 😅

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I wouldn't ask to `rm -rf node_modules` by default. :smile:

nvm use
npm i
```

If you have some issues with the packages installation, please try the following:

```shell
rm -rf node_modules
nvm use

> npm i --no-optional

Author: Thank you @sjarva for sharing this one neat trick!

Reviewer 3: Haha, you're welcome 😇

```

## Environment variables

This application uses a number of environment variables to customise the runtime behaviour. The following steps assume that you are using [direnv](https://direnv.net/).

Copy over .envrc.sample into .envrc, at the project root

```shell
cp .envrc.sample .envrc
```

To work with the frontend, you shouldn't need any further variable than the ones already provided.
Follow the instructions inside `.envrc` if you need to set up a mock API endpoint.

Finally, you need to read the variables from `.envrc`:

```shell
source .envrc
```

This command will also make sure that you are using the right Node version for this project.

## Available NPM tasks (frontend)

- `frontend-main-start` runs the React application of Oiretutka
- `frontend-main-build` creates a build for the React application
- `frontend-embed-v1-start` runs the jQuery embed of Oiretutka

> - `frontend-embed-v1-build` creates a build for the jQuery embed

Reviewer: Maybe we could explain more about these somewhere, like why they are separate and done this way. And then maybe refer to it from here. There could be some section with general info about the stack and the different parts (these and also the backend). But doesn't have to be included yet ( :

Author: That's also true! Perhaps on top of this whole ordeal a paragraph about the project structure won't hurt! I still need some kind soul (@jareware I'm looking at you) to enlighten me about the wonders and hurdles of the backend side before I can write anything about it 😁

Reviewer 2: True, some architectural overview bit would be nice.

I can look into it later, but probs not right now.

# Local development environment

This section is still under construction, if you have troubles setting the environment, please contact us (see below section).

## Project structure

The project is currently divided into three parts:

- Backend, which that takes care of collecting and storing survey answers with a stong care for privacy and security

> - Frontend main app, the main pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://oiretutka.fi)

Reviewer: This doesn't actually work without www : D
```suggestion
- Frontend main app, the main pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://www.oiretutka.fi)
```

- Frontend embed, [the survey form embedded in Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/kotimaa/art-2000006455647.html).

### Backend

Backend related files can be found in:

```
index-backend.ts
src/
- backend/
```

`<insert some Jarno wisdom here>`

### Frontend main app

> As previously mentioned, the main app consists in the pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://oiretutka.fi). Related files can be found in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously mentioned, the main app consists in the pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://www.oiretutka.fi). Related files can be found in:
```

# Local development environment

> This section is still under construction, if you have troubles setting the environment, please contact us (see below section).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section is still under construction, if you have trouble setting up the environment, please contact us (see below section).
```

## Project structure

The project is currently divided into three parts:

> - Backend, which that takes care of collecting and storing survey answers with a stong care for privacy and security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Backend, which takes care of collecting and storing survey responses with strong care for privacy and security
```

"responses" is the consistent terminology we try to use, for "answers" collected via the form. :wink:

- Frontend main app, the main pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://oiretutka.fi)

> - Frontend embed, [the survey form embedded in Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/kotimaa/art-2000006455647.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Frontend embed, [the survey form embedded in Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/kotimaa/art-2000006455647.html) and other participating publications
```

Not only HS anymore!

### Backend

Backend related files can be found in:

```
index-backend.ts
src/
- backend/
```

> `<insert some Jarno wisdom here>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The backend is compiled from TS to JS and deployed to AWS Lambda.
```

### Frontend main app

As previously mentioned, the main app consists in the pages of [Oiretutka.fi](https://oiretutka.fi). Related files can be found in:

```
index-frontend-main.tsx
src/
- frontend/
-- main/
```

This part has been developed using [React](https://reactjs.org/) and [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

### Frontend embed

> Our embed consists in [the survey form embedded in Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/kotimaa/art-2000006455647.html). Related files can be found in:

Reviewer 2: This too; not just HS anymore!

```
index-frontend-embed-v1tsx
src/
- frontend/
-- embed/
--- v1/
```

The embed has been developed using [jQuery 3.4.1](https://jquery.com/). The embed is also used in the frontend main app.

### Common files

There are files that are shared across the apps, e.g. `fonts.d.ts` and `src/common/`.

## Prerequisites

Project requires Node.js >=12 <13 to be installed; all other dependencies come from NPM via package.json.

You will need Node and npm (npm comes with Node). We recommend [using a node version manager, nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to install Node, as it allows automatically switching between node versions across projects.

> We recommend also installing [direnv](https://direnv.net/), which helps automatically set environment variables as you switch directories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend also installing [direnv](https://direnv.net/), which helps to automatically set environment variables as you switch directories.
```

Copy over .envrc.sample into .envrc, at the project root

```shell
cp .envrc.sample .envrc
```

To work with the frontend, you shouldn't need any further variable than the ones already provided.
Follow the instructions inside `.envrc` if you need to set up a mock API endpoint.

Finally, you need to read the variables from `.envrc`:

```shell
source .envrc
```

This command will also make sure that you are using the right Node version for this project.

## Available NPM tasks (frontend)

- `frontend-main-start` runs the React application of Oiretutka
- `frontend-main-build` creates a build for the React application
- `frontend-embed-v1-start` runs the jQuery embed of Oiretutka
- `frontend-embed-v1-build` creates a build for the jQuery embed

## Wrap up

For the following times you will work on the project, you will need to

- enter the project folder
- run `source .env`, which will automatically set up the right node version (assuming you are using nvm)
- `npm run frontend-main-start` or `npm run frontend-embed-v1-start` according to which part of the project you want to run locally

## Developing the stand alone (React) app

> 

Reviewer 3: @Doniee could you write a few words or lines about developing the React app here? 😄

Author: Heyooo! Can you check also my latest changes @sjarva ? The way I see it now, it feels a bit duplicated to have this here and then also those sections above to explain the project structure  (lines 47 to 84) -- I don't mind their placement, but I guess the information can be easily grouped together!

Author: Actually, nevermind, I see that you spent more time writing about all sorts of useful information! Disregard what I said! 😂 

And damn beautiful work!

If you have worked previously with modern JS frameworks, these technologies might feel a bit old-fashioned and foreign. If you haven't used vanilla JavaScript in a while or haven't noticed you know vanilla JS, [read and bookmark this cheatsheet](https://htmldom.dev/), [practice JavaScript interactively online](https://learnjavascript.online/) or just [browse extensive JS documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript). If your jQuery skills are rusty, or you haven't worked with jQuery before, [take a look at jQuery basics](http://jqfundamentals.com/chapter/jquery-basics).

If you haven't worked with TypeScript before, take a look at [the TypeScript Handbook](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/basic-types.html). Mostly TypeScript means that all function parameters and outputs have to be typed. If [the basic types](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/basic-types.html) aren't enough, take a look at [jQuery types](https://github.com/DefinitelyTyped/DefinitelyTyped/tree/682ebb5fcda0d6d68bda36862171cd1f116121b2/types/jquery) too.

> Also, as the form is emdedded through an <iframe> element, it's a good idea to read [the ultimate guide to iframes](https://blog.logrocket.com/the-ultimate-guide-to-iframes/), it'll give you more context about how the media sites will use this form.

Author: Beautiful stuff here, @sjarva 😎 

![](https://media0.giphy.com/media/KI9oNS4JBemyI/giphy.gif?cid=5a38a5a2c7eec342e3efb0fb9cbb60a2b906a02b965d945d&rid=giphy.gif)

Reviewer 3: Aww, thanks for the praise @mahdava 😍 Made my day ❤️ ❤️ ❤️
